Updating Vue Quickstart for auth0-spa-js (#8217)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/spa/vuejs/_includes/_centralized_login.md

<%= include('../../_includes/_login_preamble', { library: 'Vue.js' }) %>

> ## Create a Sample Application

Reviewer: It's very confusing that a "Integrate Auth0 in your Application" section appears above this with instructions about importing out of the blue. Then this section also gets into installing. I would remove the first one.

Author: I agree, and in fact _loads_ of people have an issue with the "Integrate Auth0..." instructions as we don't tell them at that point which file it should go in. They're intended as generic instructions.

I'm going to remove this include altogether as well as the "Authentication with Auth0" include and see what difference that makes. Can you check out the rendered article again to see what you think?

Reviewer: Much better!!

::: note
The following tutorial creates a new Vue application using the [Vue CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/), and presents some common ways to build Vue applications, in terms of its structure and naming conventions. If you are using this guide to integrate the Auth0 SDK into your Vue application, you may need to adjust some of the steps to suit your scenario.
:::

If you don't already have an existing application, you can create one using the [Vue CLI](https://cli.vuejs.org/guide/) tool. Using the terminal, find a location on your drive where you want to create the project and run the following commands:

```bash
# Install the CLI

> npm install -g @vue/cli

Reviewer: Might want to add some kind of symbol showing the command prompt, like `❯` or `$` in bash commands.

Author: Generally we haven't done this previously as it makes the command harder to copy and paste.

# Create the application using the Vue CLI.

> # When asked to pick a preset, accept the defaults

Reviewer: The default is `yarn` on my install ... may want to mention npm (if that matters)

Author: I think you're getting yarn as an option because you've got it installed - the article will work fine with either.

One thing that has come out of the quickstart principals talks (from the few I've been involved in) is that we should default to `npm` when talking about it on the docs and assume that's what the reader will be using. If an option for `yarn` is presented, then it's likely that the reader will probably just use that if they so chose, and would be comfortable translating the commands as they come up.

vue create my-app

# Move into the project directory
cd my-app

# Add the router, as we will be using it later

> vue add router

Reviewer: Asks if I should use history mode

Author: Good point, will mention this.

```

Adding the router to this project conveniently adds a couple of views and a basic router to the project. We will make use of those later in the tutorial!

### Install the SDK

After creating a new Vue app using the CLI, install the [Auth0 Client SDK](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-spa-js):

```bash
npm install @auth0/auth0-spa-js
```

### Start the application

Now start the application from the command line:

```bash
PORT=3000 npm run serve
```

> At this point, you can leave the application running in the background, as it will reload whenever you make changes. Note the port number — if you intend your app to run on a different port, remember to adjust this number to suit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point, you can leave the application running in the background, as it will reload whenever you make changes. Note the port number — if you intend your app to run on a different port, remember to adjust this number throughout the quickstart.
```

## Create an Authentication Wrapper

The best way to manage and coordinate the tasks necessary for user authentication is to create a reusable wrapper object around the Auth0 SDK. In this sample, this wrapper is implemented as a Vue object. Doing this makes it much easier to work with the asynchronous methods of the Auth0 SDK, thanks to the reactive nature of Vue.

This code also implements a simple Vue plugin that exposes this wrapper object to the rest of the application.

> To implement the wrapper, create a new folder called `auth` inside the `src` folder, and then create a new file called `index.js` inside. Populate this file with the following content:

Reviewer: I don't have a `src` folder at this point. Create one?

Author: I'm assuming this was because (from your Slack message) that you hadn't switched into the project folder - is that the case?

> :::note

Reviewer: Would it be better to maybe put this in a repo or Gist now so it can be copied whole-sale? I would expect all of this code in this tutorial to be understood rather than just boilerplate.

Author: Certainly an option. Right now I've followed what we've done for the React and Angular samples. I'm hoping that it won't be too long before we take these snippets out and move them into their own libraries, in which case we'll come back and update these docs.

I don't have a strong opinion either way, except that the way it is now isn't _hugely_ inhibiting. It keeps the reader on the page (as opposed to redirecting them to a Gist) and there is a single button they can press to copy the whole snippet and paste it in. What do you think?

Reviewer: I'm good with that.

        client_id: options.clientId,
        audience: options.audience,
        redirect_uri: redirectUri
      });

      try {
        // If the user is returning to the app after authentication..
        if (
          window.location.search.includes("code=") &&
          window.location.search.includes("state=")
        ) {
          // handle the redirect and retrieve tokens
          const { appState } = await this.auth0Client.handleRedirectCallback();

          // Notify subscribers that the redirect callback has happened, passing the appState
          // (useful for retrieving any pre-authentication state)
          onRedirectCallback(appState);
        }
      } catch (e) {
        this.error = e;
      } finally {
        // Initialize our internal authentication state
        this.isAuthenticated = await this.auth0Client.isAuthenticated();
        this.user = await this.auth0Client.getUser();
        this.loading = false;
      }
    }
  });

  return instance;
};

// Create a simple Vue plugin to expose the wrapper object throughout the application
export const Auth0Plugin = {
  install(Vue, options) {
    Vue.prototype.$auth = useAuth0(options);
  }
};

```

> The `options` object passed to the plugin is used to provide the values for `clientId` and `domain`. For this example, create a new file `auth_config.json` in the root directory of the application alongside your `package.json` file, and populate it with your tenant values:

Reviewer: If I follow the steps in this QS as-is, I don't have a `package.json`, only `package-lock.json` (I didn't run `npm init`).

Author: Strange - again relating to being in the right folder?

Reviewer: Yes, sorry, I guess I didn't remove all the comments related to that 🤷‍♂

> The `options` object passed to the plugin is used to provide the values for `clientId` and `domain`. For this example, create a new file `auth_config.json` in the root directory of the application alongside your `package.json` file, and populate it with your tenant values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `options` object passed to the plugin is used to provide the values for `clientId` and `domain`. For this example, create a new file `auth_config.json` in the root directory of the application alongside your `package-lock.json` file, and populate it with the values from your application created above:
```

Author: Have applied this change locally without the `package.json` bit.

```json
{
  "domain": "${account.namespace}",
  "clientId": "${account.clientId}"
}
```

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

Reviewer: May also want to note that nothing here is sensitive, just configuration.

Author: Nice, have adjusted the wording here.

Author: Also, applied the change locally.

This configuration file contains values relating to your Auth0 app, and should not be committed into source control.
:::

<!-- ![hosted login](/media/articles/web/hosted-login.png) -->

> Finally, open `src/main.js` and use `Vue.use` to install the plugin. Notice that the configuration for your Auth0 app is imported from `auth_config.json` and supplied to the plugin:

Reviewer: Need to create this file

Reviewer: My bad

```js
import Vue from "vue";
import App from "./App.vue";
import router from './router'

> import { domain, clientId } from "../auth_config.json";

Reviewer: Maybe a note that this is new as well?

// Import the plugin here
import { Auth0Plugin } from "./auth";

// Install the authentication plugin here
Vue.use(Auth0Plugin, {
  domain,
  clientId,
  onRedirectCallback: appState => {
    router.push(
      appState && appState.targetUrl
        ? appState.targetUrl
        : window.location.pathname
    );
  }
});

Vue.config.productionTip = false;

new Vue({
  router,
  render: h => h(App)
}).$mount("#app");
```

> Notice that the configuration file created earlier has been imported and used to initialize the plugin. A custom redirect callback has also been supplied, which redirects the user to a protected route after they have authenticated (this is covered a bit later).

Reviewer: > A custom redirect callback has also been supplied ...

Has it? See comment below RE: callback error.

Author: From a previous comment, I've added in a comment above the import which *should* make it more visible - what do you think?

Reviewer: I think my confusion was around the wording:

> custom redirect callback ...

You're talking about a redirect after logging in here, correct? The redirect to the profile page works fine but I think "callback" used in this context is a little misleading (we typically use "callback" to indicate where the auth is processed which, in this case, is just the homepage).

Author: I see what you're saying. I've changed the wording to "handler" - how does that sound?

## Log in to the App

In this section, you will provide a way for the user to log in or log out, depending on their authentication status.

> Open the `views/Home.vue` file and modify the template to include two buttons that enable the user to log in and log out:

Reviewer: Again, need to create this.

Reviewer: Again, my bad

```html
<template>
  <div class="home">
    <img alt="Vue logo" src="../assets/logo.png" />
    <HelloWorld msg="Welcome to Your Vue.js App" />

>     <!-- Check that the SDK client is not currently loading before accessing is methods -->

Reviewer: I didn't realize this was the only section added at first ... easy to fix but might be better guidance we can provide?

Author: I wish there was a solution to this.

One thing I tried was using the `diff` type to highlight changes, which gives us this:

<img width="896" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/766403/65439197-b2b37000-de1e-11e9-94ca-c6c3ffce1981.png">

But it's still not perfect. In an ideal world, the new additions would be colorized normally as per the language syntax, and everything else would be greyed out.

Author: I wonder if we can provide a custom colour scheme to at least grey-out the non-changes.. 🤔

Author: Something like this:

<img width="896" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/766403/65439793-a4b21f00-de1f-11e9-9a42-ea89d1b41150.png">

Reviewer: I would **LOVE** to have that option. The upcoming ID labs would really use that as well. Not sure if that's possible with the code highlighting library we're using. Maybe something that @davidpatrick could help with?

Author: The above screenshot ☝️ is easy to do with a bit of styling. Nothing else in the docs project uses the `diff` language type so it would be easy to target.

What's not so easy is having the diff show up in normal syntax colours and grey out everything else. Looking around, there's a few SO questions and blog posts about a similar thing but nothing concrete.

I'm going to put aside some time later to try and work out a possible solution.

Reviewer: We can put this aside for now since it should not block this PR. Let me know if I can help at all.

    <div v-if="!$auth.loading">
      <!-- show login when not authenticated -->
      <button v-if="!$auth.isAuthenticated" @click="login">Log in</button>
      <!-- show logout when authenticated -->
      <button v-if="$auth.isAuthenticated" @click="logout">Log out</button>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

Notice that the buttons are wrapped in a directive that makes sure `$auth.loading` is false. This is because most methods on the SDK client are asynchronous, and you must wait until the client has finished loading before trying to access things like the user's authentication state.

Further down the `Home.vue` file, modify the components script and implement the `login` and `logout` methods as follows:

```js
<script>

> // .. imports removed for brevity

Reviewer: Not a lot of brevity achieved 😆

Author: I thought something was better than nothing 😄

export default {
  name: "home",
  components: {
    HelloWorld
  },
  methods: {
    // Log the user in
    login() {
      this.$auth.loginWithRedirect();
    },
    // Log the user out
    logout() {
      this.$auth.logout({
        returnTo: window.location.origin
      });
    }
  }
};
</script>
```

:::panel Checkpoint

> Try running the application at this point. Provided you have configured your Auth0 credentials correctly, you should be redirected to the Auth0 Universal Login page, and back to your app against once you have logged in.

Reviewer: The callback mentioned at the top of the page - `http://localhost:3000/callback` - apparently is not correct. The one used is `http://localhost:3000` so I got a callback error when I ran it.

Author: Good catch, yes the `/callback` should now be removed.

Once the user authenticates, the SDK extracts the user's profile information and stores it in memory. It can be accessed using `this.$auth.user` from inside a Vue component.

To display the profile information, create a new file called `Profile.vue` in the `views` folder. Use the `this.$auth.user` property to access the user's profile data and display it on the page, as in the following example:

```js
<template>
  <div>
    <div>
      <img :src="$auth.user.picture">
      <h2>{{ $auth.user.name }}</h2>
      <p>{{ $auth.user.email }}</p>
    </div>

    <div>
      <pre>{{ JSON.stringify($auth.user, null, 2) }}</pre>
    </div>
  </div>
</template>
```

### Add a route to the Profile component

You will add a route to this Profile component so that the user may access it via the UI and the navigation bar. In the next section, you will protect this route from unauthenticated users.

To access the profile page, import the `Profile` component into `router.js` and then modify the routes list so that the `Profile` component is mapped to `/profile`:

```js
// src/router.js

//.. other imports

> import Profile from "./views/Profile.vue";

Reviewer: Missed this at first ...

Author: Reworded slightly and added comments

      <!-- NEW - add a route to the profile page -->
      <router-link v-if="$auth.isAuthenticated" to="/profile">Profile</router-link>
    </div>
    <router-view />
  </div>
</template>
```

:::panel Checkpoint
Now when you run the application, you should be able to log in and see the link to the profile page in the navigation bar. When you navigate to the profile page, the user's information will be visible on the screen.
:::

## Secure the Profile Page

Even though the `/profile` route is only shown if the user is authenticated, the user could still manually type the URL into the browser and access the page if they have not logged in — although there will be nothing to see.

A catch-all rule can be added to the router so that access is only permitted if the user is logged in. If they are not logged in, they will be prompted to log in before being redirected to the location they tried to access in the first place.

Create a new file in the `src/auth` folder called `authGuard.js`, and use the `getInstance` method of the authentication service to implement a function that will prevent a route from being accessed by an unauthenticated user:

```js

> import { getInstance } from "./authService";

Reviewer: Getting an error with this:

```
Failed to compile.

./src/auth/authGuard.js
Module not found: Error: Can't resolve 'authService' in '/Users/josh-cunningham/Sites/quickstarts/spa-qs-vue/src/auth'
```

Author: Ah, the import was wrong. I've fixed it now

Reviewer: The change:

```js
import { getInstance } from "./auth";
```

... still gave me a compile error. I changed to:

```js
import { getInstance } from "./index";
```

... and that worked.

Author: Ah of course, because you're in a file in the same folder. Thanks for the correction!

    return fn();
  }

  // Watch for the loading property to change before we check isAuthenticated
  authService.$watch("loading", loading => {
    if (loading === false) {
      return fn();
    }
  });
};
```

Notice that in the call to `loginWithRedirect`, the URL that the user was trying to access (`to.fullPath`) is supplied. This URL will be returned to the app after authentication and is used to redirect the user to the place they were trying to reach before they logged in.

:::note
To see how the `targetUrl` property is used to navigate the user once they have authenticated, revisit the <a href="#create-a-vue-plugin">Create a Vue Plugin</a> section again and inspect how the plugin is installed into your Vue app.
:::

Finally, open up `src/router.js` and use the guard to protect the `/profile` route, as in the following example:

```js
// .. other imports ..

import { authGuard } from "./auth/authGuard";

export default new Router({
  mode: "history",
  base: process.env.BASE_URL,
  routes: [
    // .. other routes ..
    {
      path: "/profile",
      name: "profile",
      component: Profile,
      beforeEnter: authGuard
    }
  ]
});
```

:::panel Checkpoint

> Start the application and make sure you are logged out. Now, modify the URL in your browser's navigation bar to include the `/profile` path on the end. This should cause the application to ask you to authentication. Once you have logged in, the profile page should be visible without you having to navigate there manually.

Reviewer: Could not reach this, see comment above about compile error.

Author: Should be ok with the above fixed.
